# Python Desktop Application

Our team has decided to create a basic Python software application that is designed to be used exclusively by Hewitt on their own systems to provide enhanced functionality and ease of use with their printing and data import/export scripts.

## Tkinter Desktop Application code files

The following files are those that comprise the core functionality of the Python Tkinter Desktop Application.

### Desktopapp.py

This is will be where a lot of hard coded SQL commands will be held. The idea here is to provide a comprehensive application for Hewitt's management to be able to interact with their database without having to know SQL.  In order to accomplish this, we are going to have to hard code various common SQL commands here.  This will simplify the process of dealing with the database for our clients.

### config.ini

Hewitt specifically requested that the configuration file containing the database credentials be separated from the primary Python file, so as to provide enhanced flexibility for potential future adjustments.  This file is the separated config file for the desktop app.

### setup.py

This file is to be ignored. This is what I use to create the the compiled binary (executable) in the `dist` folder, but please do not touch or change anything about this.


## Hewitt's Python Script files

The following files contain the source code for the scripts that we implemented to allow Hewitt to carry out the everday tasks of printing tests, importing test shipping information and exporting test result information.

### print_tests.py

This file contains the Python code used to construct the print templates for Hewitt.  The print templates were constructed using Python's win32ui library.  This is a Windows API library whose functions deliver direct access to a system's default printer.  This library ultimately provided us with the most flexibility in printing in extremely precise locations on the page.  This was absolutely essential for Hewitt, as their scantron test order prints require a high level of specificity within the "office use only" section of the scantron.

### print_labels.py

This file contains the Python script used for printing little labels onto Hewitt's Zebra label printer.

### add_online_orders.py

This file contains the Python script used to import customer test orders from the CSV files generated by WooCommerce into the Hewitt database.

### export_shipping_csv.py

This file contains the Python script that accesses and exports all test order shipping information to a CSV file to a specified Hewitt filepath.

## Configuation Enviroment
To update the executable, you will first need to do "pip install" of all the following libaries:
- py2exe
- mysql/mysql.connector
- pywin32

Then, after saving changes to any of the python scripts, then do the following:
- Open a terminal, and cd into where the 'DesktopApp' folder is located
    - EX: cd C:\Users\User_Name\Desktop\Hewitt\DB_enhance\DesktopApp
- After going to the correct folder, then run this command: 'python setup.py py2exe'
- It may take a moment, but the it should update the executable, and things should be good.